This paper gives an overview of recent works for analyzing
automatically harmonic structure from annotated scores. I am a bit
confused by the structure of the paper: for example, the part 2 says
that the addressed problem can be separated in three parts, but they
do not follow afterwards (the next part talks about music
representation; the problems are effectively tackled at the part 5 and
6). As this is a survey-type of paper, this is particularly
concerning. I do not know much about the problem this survey wants to
give an overview of, and I am not sure I know much more after reading
it.

 	
A four-page paper (2 pages, discounting introduction and bibliography)
doesn't seem to offer enough depth to fully characterize the
significant body of literature on automated harmonic analysis
techniques that you summarize. While you highlight the relevant
problems that must be solved in order to convert symbolic music
information (score, MIDI, etc.) into a transcribed chord sequence, I
found myself wanting more explanations in each section: the details
provided were not enough to well describe the areas I was familiar
with nor to fully explain those that I knew less about. Given such
scant information, the summary of the strengths and weaknesses of each
technique and the conclusions about the overall state of the field
were vague and hard to appreciate. It seems that your bibliography is
comprehensive and well researched so, if you believe that the field
has a need for a summary paper like this, I would recommend revising
this paper into a longer, more expansive format.

 	
A SURVEY OF AUTOMATED HARMONIC ANALYSIS TECHNIQUES The paper attempts
to provide a comprehensive survey of automated harmonic analysis
techniques. Although the authors correctly identify some of the
problems and shortcomings in automated harmonic analysis methods, in
my opinion, the paper falls short of fulfilling its goals.
Explanations of problems in harmonic analysis and summarizations of
existing work are too brief and not sufficiently descriptive. There
are some grammatical errors and typos, but those aside, there are many
obscure sentences that make it hard to read. I unfortunately don¡¯t
think the contribution of this paper is sufficient to warrant
publication at ICMC. I would recommend extending the length and
incorporating some form of comparison of the existing methods to make
it publishable elsewhere. The following references also come to mind:
A Generative Theory of Tonal Music, Lerdahl and Jackendoff Tonal Pitch
Space, Lerdahl Some points to improve readability: It seems more
appropriate to reference papers with multiple authors using all their
names or using et al. Section 1 paragraph 1 ¡°¡­query-by-humming¡­¡±
reference [27] is not really a query by humming paper it attempts to
solve the polyphonic ¡°query by audio example¡± problem. Although it is
possible to gather multiple people to sing polyphonic queries this is
impractical and usually not how query-by-humming is understood. Para 2
line -2 musical -> music para -1 line -4 focus -> focuses Section 2
Para 1 line 3 piece in -> piece into Section 3 Para 4 line1 ¡°where
developed to keep the characteristics of tonal music¡± Where -> were
What does keep the characteristics of tonal music mean? Section 4 para
1 line 3 if is -> if it is para 2 line -1 ¡°It assumes that every
non-chord note is followed by a conjunct movement which is not always
true.¡± Do you mean that the assumption is not true. If so, please
rephrase. Para -1 line 4 ¡°classify error frequencies¡± please rephrase.
Section 5 para 1 line 3 ¡°These may be subdivided in the expert-system
approach, concerned with computerized representation of harmonic
rules; and the statistical approach, that deduces said rules from
probabilistic models.¡± I can¡¯t decipher this sentence. Please
rephrase. Section 5.1 Para 1 line 3 Musical - music Section 5.2 Para 1
¡°While not specifically addressing the problem of musical context,
statistical models differ from their rule-based counterparts by
considering this information implicitly.¡± Which information? Para 1
line 3 ¡°This is accomplished by inference of implicit information from
already harmonized scores during training.¡± What does inference of
implicit information mean? Para 1 line 7 ¡°to mistakenly analyze a
piece¡± To make errors while analyzing a piece Section 6 Para 1 line 1
¡°The division of a given piece in harmonic significant segments is a
crucial problem in the area of automated harmonic analysis, although
underrepresented in the literature. What is the definition of a
harmonically significant segment ? Do you mean sections within chord
boundaries ? Last section last para ¡°are not meaningful works¡± ->
works do not exist.
